# Design space exploration and modelling of GATOR 3D printed morphing skins

**Authors:** Rafael M Heeb, Michael Dicker and Benjamin K S Woods

**Accepted for publication:** 19 May 2022

**Published:** 1 July 2022

This is the sternal link to the publication [IOP Publishing](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1361-665X/ac71ed)

The publication can be Downloaded [here](./Heeb2022%20-%20Manufacturing%20and%20Characterisation%20of%203D%20Printed%20Thermoplastic%20Morphing%20Skins.pdf)

## Abstract
Morphing aircraft are one promising solution to reducing the aviation industry’s environmental impact because they can make aircraft more aerodynamically efficient, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The design of morphing skins is inherently challenging due to the competing design constraints of needing to be stiff out-of-plane to resist pressure loads while being compliant in-plane to minimise actuation energy. Previous work by these authors introduced the novel concept of Geometrically Anisotropic Thermoplastic Rubber (GATOR) morphing skins that take advantage of multi-material 3D printing and structural scaling laws to allow for better compromises between these competing design constraints. In this work, multi material Fused Filament Fabrication methods were used to 3D print the proposed GATOR sandwich panels from two different stiffnesses of thermoplastic polyurethane to demonstrate the manufacturing process and experimentally quantify the performance of some simple embodiments of the GATOR concept. The panels were mechanically tested to determine their flexural and extensional stiffnesses. Results show that the panels can be extended to a stretch ratio of $\lambda$ = 1.6 with a linear response at low stretch ratios. The results from the flexural experiments show that the flexible face sheets are capable of withstanding some compression before buckling, which results in a linear behaviour at small forces. These results show the promise of the GATOR skin concept and motivate future development of designs that further exploit the underlying principles of the concept.